Add IntelliJ Quarkus Tools 1.12.0 blog post (#1520)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2022-08-23-intellij-quarkus-tools-1.12.0.adoc

---
layout: post
title: 'Quarkus Tools for IntelliJ 1.12.0 released!'
date: 2022-08-23
tags: announcement ide
synopsis: 'This release improves Quarkus run experience'
author: jeffmaury
---
:imagesdir: /assets/images/posts/intellij-quarkus-tools-1.12.0

We are very pleased to announce the 1.12.0 release of Quarkus Tools for IntelliJ.

> This release improves the Quarkus wizard and Quarkus run experience but also align with LSP4MP 0.5.0 and quarkus-ls 0.12.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release improves the Quarkus wizard and Quarkus run experience but also aligns with LSP4MP 0.5.0 and quarkus-ls 0.12.1.
```

== Improved Quarkus wizard

The Quarkus wizard can be used from `File -> New -> Module -> Quarkus`.

It has been improved so that it is now possible to filter the list of displayed Quarkus extension by name pattern and allow or disallow the inclusion of non platforms Quarkus extensions.

image::quarkus-tools2.gif[]

== Improved Quarkus run experience

Quarkus tools supports running or debugging Quarkus applications through a specific configuration type for a while.

> The experience has been improved so that developers can easily open Quarkus DevUI or application from Quarkus Tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The experience has been improved so that developers can easily open Quarkus Dev UI or applications from Quarkus Tools.
```

> After the application is started, a console is displayed by IntelliJ. From that console, ou can open a browser to either the Quarkus DevUI or to the Quarkus application. Right click in the console and a sub menu Quarkus will be displayed. It has 2 sub menus Open DevUI and Open application. When one of these menus are selected, a new browser window is opened to the desired location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the application is started, a console is displayed by IntelliJ. From that console, you can open a browser to either the Quarkus Dev UI or to the Quarkus application. Right click in the console and a Quarkus submenu will be displayed. It has 2 submenus: Open Dev UI and Open application. When one of these menus is selected, a new browser window is opened to the desired location.
```
